{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang16393{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.18362}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 1.what is difference between angular and angularjs?\par
angularjs vs angular\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 angular js supports mvc design model while angular uses component and directives \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}angularjs recomennds javascript whie in angular typescript is recomended\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}angularjs doesnt supports the concept of dependency injection while angular supports heiraechical dependency injection\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. what is angular?\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 angular is typescript based open source front end web framework \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}it provide a platform for easy development of web based application and empowers the front end in selecting or organizing cross platform application\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}it integrates various features such as directives,components,declarative templates,e2e testing,depending injection,and varoius features that smoothens the web development path\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 3. what are the advantages of angular?\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 supports 2way data binding\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}it follows mvc design architecture\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}supports static template and angular template\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}custom directive can be added\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}supports restfull services\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}client and server communication fascillated\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}supports dependency injection\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}has strong features like event handlers animations\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 4. what is angular mainly used for?\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 angular is typically used to develop spa which stands for singl page application. \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}anguar provides a set of in built modules that simplifies the develpoment of spa.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}not only this with the features like built in modules,type sefety and modular cli. angular is regarded as a full fledged web framework\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 5 what are angular expressions?\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 angular expressions are code snippets that are used to bind application data to html such as \{\{ expression\}\} .\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 6 what are templates in angular?\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 templates in angular are written in html that contains angular specific codes \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}these  templates are combined with information coming from model and controller that are rendered as dynamic view to the user.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}each angular application has atleast 1 component called root component that need to be bootstrap in root module \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}the component consists application logic inside the class. \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}there can be several component in an angular application under each modules\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 7 what is string interpolation?\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 string interpolation in angular is special syntax that usses expression with double curly braces fr displaying  component data .such as \{\{ expression\}\}\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 8 what is differece between annotations and decorators in angular\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 annotations in angular are only metadata set of the class that reflect metadata library.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}while decorators are design pattern that are used to seperate modification or decoration of the class withoout altering source code.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 9 what are controlles in angular?\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Contrllers are typescript function that provide data and logic to html.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tab as the name suggests, it controls how the data flows from server to html ui.\par
10 what are directives in angular?\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 directives add behaviour to existing dom elements or component instances\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 component i sa directives with associated view(i.e html to be rendered)\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}all components are directives but not all directives are component\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tab these are segregated in 3 types\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 component directives:\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tab a directive with a view and associted behaviour with it . this kind of directive usually \tab add behaviour to dom elements\par
        2.    structural directive\par
\tab change the dom layout by adding or removing dom elements \par
\tab eg *ngIf,*ngSwitch,8ngFor\par
       3.   Attribute directive\par
\tab changes the appearence and behaviours of another element ,component and other \tab directive . eg ngClass.ngStyle\par
11.  what is data binding in angular?\par
Bind binding means the communication between typescript code of the component and template which the uer sees . suppose you have some bussiness logic and you want some  dynamic data from server and wants to render this dynamic data to the tempplate because this is what user sees. this is where data binding comes into picture because we need some sort of communication between typescript code and template .\par
types of data binding\par
1. string interpolation is a one way data binding which is used to output data from typescript code to html template. it uses expression within double curly braces to display data from typescript to template. it evaluates the expression or used to call the methods ex. \{\{expression\}\}\par
2. property bindind is also 1 way data binding which is used to bind the property of the dom elements to the field which is property of typescript code.\par
\tab ex: <h2 [textfield]='title'></h2>\par
here we are binding textfield content of h2 dom element with title which we have defined in component.\par
stringinterpolation and property binding both are 1way binding that means any change in component property , angular will change the dom elements but any change in dom, will not be reflected to components.\par
3. event binding is also one type of binding in angular , which is used to handle event such as button clicked ,mouse moved etc. suppose we have a button in html and we want to handle click event to this button. to implement this we have to bind click event of this button to the method in component.\par
<button (click)='onsave()'>save</button>\par
4. 2way data binding is used when we want to update dom elements and on changing component property and vice versa. 1 way data binding is used to update dom element on changing component property but with the help of 2waydata binding we can achieve feature to update data from component to view and vice versa.\par
<input type ='text' [(ngModel)]='propertyofcomponent'>\par
for two way binding we combine property binding and event binding both, as we call bananna in box syntax\par
   \par
12 what are modules in angular?\par
modules are logical boundaries in our application in which our application is divided ,to seperate the functionaity of application.\par
each angular application has atleast one module called root module, there can be several module in an angular application.\par
a typescript class decorated with decorator @ngModule is treated as module of the application\par
@ngModule decorator has three properties \par
declaration is used to define reffrence variableof  component in respective module\par
imports is used to define the other dependent modules in repsective module\par
providers is used to define the services used in the modules\par
bootstrap is used as an entrypoint of the application or which component to bootstrap in application.\par
13 what are lifecycle hooks available?\par
Angular application goes through an entire set of processes or has a lifecycle right from iniiation to the end of the application.\par
constructor=> whenver an instance of component is ccreated constructor is exected to initialize component instance variabl\par
ngOnchanges=> when the value of data bound value changes this method is called.\par
ngOnInIt=> this is called whenever the initialization of the directive or component after angular first display its data bound properties happen.\par
ngDocheck=> this is for detection and act changes that angular wont detect on its own\par
ngonDestroy=>this is called just before components distroys. this is clean up phase where observables are unsuscribed and event handlers are detached.\par
14. what are metadata?\par
metadata are used to decorate class so that it can configure expected behaviour to the class.\par
class decorator are @component @ngModule @injectable @pipe\par
property decorator are @input @output\par
15. what is angular cli?\par
angular cli or command line interface is cli to build angular apps and its component services directives pipes etc using nodejs style modules.\par
ng generate [component,service,directive,pipe,module] <name>\par
ng serve: to run project\par
ng new <name> : to create project\par
16 what is service?\par
service is used when comman functiionality need to executed within different modules.\par
using service it will create singleton instance ,whenever any changes takes place in data it will be reflected to others as well.\par
17 what is dependency injection in angular?\par
dependency injection is an important design pattern in which a class asks for dependencies from extrnal sources rather than creating them itself. here dependencies are services and objects so we can have services depend on other services throughout the application.\par
18 what are pipes?\par
A pipe takes in data and transforms it to desired output.\par
for example toupper pipe takes a string literals and transforms every character to capital and return the result to template expression.\par
19. what are customs pipes?\par
Apart from built pipe , we can built custom pipes\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 A pipe is a class decorated with decorator @pipe which we import from core angular library\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}The pipe class implements pipetransforms interface 's method transform which accepts input value followed by optional parameter and returns the transformed value.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}@pipe decorator defines pipename that will be used in tempplate expressions.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 20. What is authentication and authorization?\par
The User login credentials are passed to authenticate api, which is present in the server.  on post server side validation successfully completes, a json web token(JSON) is returned to the user. the jwt has information or attributes about the current usser. the user is then identified using this token. this is called authentication.\par
Post logging in successfully, different user have different level of access, some have access to entry level while some have access to full resoources. this level of access is called authorization.\par
21. Overview of angular application\par

\pard\ri-926\sa200\sl276\slmult1 22.What is ahead of time compiler?\par
Each angular compiler compiles its application internally. This happens once per occassion per session. The angular application takes the typescript code, compiles the code and produces some js code. It is known as AOT\par
23. What is spa(single page techology)?\par
In single page technology, only a single page which is index.html is maintained. although the url keeps on changing. Unlike tradional web technology, spa is fast and easy to develop.\par
In traditional web technology, whenever a client request a web page, server responds to it by sending the requested web page,the client requests for another  web page, the responds again by sending requested resource. the problem with this technology is that it requires lot of time\par
23.New Features of angular 6?\par
1. Added ng update\par
Cli command updtaes thier projecct dependencies to thier latest version. the ng update is normal packkage manager tool to identify and update other dependencies.\par
2.Uses Rxjs6\par
rxjs is third party lib and introduces 2 new concepts\par
Introduced new project structure\par
operator concept\par
to update rxjs6 ng install --save rxjs@6\par
3. service level changes\par
user wanted to provide service to the entire application, user need to add to providers in app module, but from angular 6 it not required.\par
4. Renamed Operators\par
throw()-> throwerror()\par
finally()  -> finalize()\par
switch()-> switchall()\par
catch() -> catchall()\par
}
 